[Music]
the Earth's surface is shaking lawn
cracks split the ground open lava rivers
are rapidly flowing down the slopes
explosions sound more and more often
rocks and other debris are flying into
the air the sky is darkened by the
clouds of ash yeah it's not a pilot of a
new disaster movie
it's just geologists who decided to
drill into a supervolcano
but before I tell you about all this
drilling let me introduce you to super
volcanoes that can produce super
eruptions and when they do they blow
more than 240 cubic miles of ash molten
rock and hot gases up in the air in
other words for super eruptions could
fill the Grand Canyon to the brim super
volcanoes get foreign when gigantic
volumes of scorching hot magma are
trying to escape from deep underground
it rises close to the surface but can't
break through the Earth's crust that's
why at a depth of only several miles
there gathers a huge pressurized pool of
bubbling magma the pressure keeps
growing because more and more of it is
trying to get to the surface until bang
a super eruption occurs the most recent
super eruption took place in New Zealand
well when I say recent I mean around 26
thousand five hundred years ago that's
when a supervolcano beneath the surface
of Lake Taupo
blew more than 300 cubic miles of ash
and pumice into the air imagine five
hundred thousand Great Pyramids of Giza
flying up at the same time that's how
incredibly powerful that eruption was
but the most exciting and confusing
thing about the eruption was that the
Talpiot volcano didn't simply explode
like many others everything was going as
usual at first more than 200 square
miles of magma had built up under the
surface and the pressure was getting
higher and higher but after the
crack and the first portion of lava
rushed out of the crater something went
wrong and the supervolcano took a break
only several months later the disastrous
explosion shook the ground and thousands
of tons of lava rocks and ash erupted
high into the atmosphere the unusual
pattern of chop-o still confuses
scientists to no end but the age of
super volcanoes isn't over the most
infamous of them all is probably the one
in Yellowstone National Park
this giant is responsible for at least
three giant normos eruptions and who
knows how many smaller ones if this
monster erupted anywhere as strong as it
did 2.1 million years ago it would spit
up more than 600 cubic miles of red hot
stuff you can probably picture it more
vividly if I tell you that this volume
is the same as 65 million Capital
rotunda's in Washington DC crammed
together whoo that's a lot of
politicians anyway scientists are sure
that Yellowstone doesn't present any
danger these days for an eruption to
happen magma inside has to be at least
50% molten with Yellowstone this number
is just 5 to 15% but of course
Yellowstone isn't the only supervolcano
on our planet New Zealand's taupo you
already know about japan's Aira caldera
california's long valley Indonesia's
Toba any of them can one day entertain
us with a super eruption there are also
several so-called super volcanoes that
haven't lived up to this name yet
because they've never produced anything
like a super eruption for example in
1883 Indonesian volcano Krakatoa started
to erupt the power of it tore the
volcano's walls open and cold seawater
rushed into its molten insides the
difference in temperatures made the
volcano explode with a deafening boom
that was clearly heard 3,000 miles away
in Australia it earned the blast the
title of the loudest sound in history
but even though the consequences of the
Europe
were truly disastrous it still wasn't
powerful enough to be called a super
eruption
by the way if you've ever seen a
volcanic eruption tell me all about it
in the comments below we'd love a hear
all about it anyway what devastates
scientists the most is how little they
know about super volcanoes because those
aren't just some overgrown fire
mountains no they are way more
complicated than that appearing so deep
underground and extending for hundreds
of miles
super volcanoes don't follow the ways of
all others experts are still unsure
about the processes that trigger them
especially since super eruptions
thankfully don't take place more often
than every 50 thousand years or so
that's one of the reasons why some
experts want to drill into a
supervolcano it would allow them to
collect samples and examine geothermal
energy that's rising from the heart of a
volcano it could help to understand if
or when and how a supervolcano might
burst it's not the only reason why
drilling into one may be a good idea
another daring project includes making a
six mile deep hole that would reach the
belly of a supervolcano and pump down
cold pressurized water it's supposed to
nail two birds with one stone
cool the volcano down and produce green
energy oh by the way don't throw stones
at birds it's not nice anyway see for
yourself when the water got back from
the drill hole its temperature would be
around 662 degrees if there was a
geothermal plant built anywhere near
that place the water could be used to
generate loads of electric power the
whole process would be very simple
that's why such electric power would
only cost ten cents per kilowatt hour
what's more thanks to this technology
engineers would slowly but surely
extract the heat from the volcano
minimizing the risk of a super eruption
sounds great but is it indeed
even though the idea of drilling a hole
in a supervolcano seems to have its own
benefits many physicists geologists and
even politicians have their doubts let's
say you don't drill too deep into the
volcano just deep enough to get some
materials to examine it's supposed to be
safe since you just need some rock
samples and you are going to tamper with
the insides of this Nature Made cauldron
with magma but what's happening in
reality is you getting inside a cage
with sleeping lions and trying to steal
their food I mean you can get away with
this crazy fit or one of the Lions can
wake up the same will be going on with a
supervolcano it's true that if you keep
drilling at the surface you won't do any
harm but once you go a bit deeper or hit
a hypo thermal pocket get ready for a
calamity it will release gases that are
very likely to cause a series of super
powerful explosions in the worst-case
scenario
it may even trigger a full-blown volcano
eruption and you already know what the
results of such an event can be from
fountains of lava and avalanches of
molten rocks to climate changes all over
the globe but what if you decided to
drill even deeper in an attempt to cool
the volcano down or to release the
pressure inside and prevent the thing
from blowing it would be even riskier
for example you drill and drill and
accidentally hit a magma chamber then
while trying to cool down the volcano
with water you make the top of the magma
chamber way more fragile than it used to
be it results in the whole structure
being ready to collapse at any moment or
your drilling may lead to the release of
toxic gases that tend to accumulate at
the top of the magma reservoir and at
the moment you let these gases out by
mistake
you better be wearing a full-face
breathing mask of course you could avoid
such dramatic consequences if you decide
to drill somewhere away from the center
of the supervolcano but once again these
fellows are super unpredictable and
but it can figure out their patterns
with ironclad certainty that's why the
drilling isn't going to happen until its
necessity starts to outweigh all the
risks let sleeping dogs lie you know in
2006 the world's largest mud volcano
Lucy in Indonesia erupted sending tons
of boiling water gas and mud in the air
more than 30,000 people had to leave
their homes and relocate and the volcano
still isn't done with spewing out mud
some experts claim that the reason for
the disaster was nearby oil drilling
that could provoke the eruption on the
other hand the trigger could be an
earthquake that happened 175 miles away
you never know with volcanoes a if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life